---
title: Please Welcome Dr. Jekyll
slug: please-welcome-dr-jekyll
featured: false
og_title: Please Welcome Dr. Jekyll – Johnathan.org
og_description: 'Update May 12, 2018 : See this post for the latest status on this.
  It’s taken a while for me to mentally get to this point but today I finally crossed
  the thres'
meta_title: Please Welcome Dr. Jekyll – Johnathan.org
meta_description: A hand-crafted technology product by Johnathan Lyman
layout: post
categories: posts
date: 2015-12-07 09:37:18.000000000 -08:00
---

 **Update May 12, 2018** : See [this post](https://johnathan.org/posts/2018/05/an-auto-deploying-static-site-with-backend.html) for the latest status on this.

It’s taken a while for me to mentally get to this point but today I finally crossed the threshold and converted my blog into one generated by Jekyll. Essentially, every time I post or make a change, the blog is rebuilt into static files making the load on my server super light as well as saving disk space. On top of it all, I really wanted to tinker with the idea.

There were a few reasons why I finally bit the bullet and I wanted to share them in hopes that one day someone will stumble across this post and finally take the plunge like I did.

1. **WordPress is getting kinda fat**. I’ve seen fatter CMSes (anyone remember PostNuke– the year 2002 was fun.) As someone who’s getting more and more into software development and tinkering with code in general, WordPress is a beast I don’t want to tackle, to be honest.
2. **I really only need a couple features**. And one of those is a blog. It’s pretty easy to do that with just about anything and with the level of potential complexity


that WordPress can introduce.

1. **Comments, psh.**. I can’t think of a time when I _really_ wanted to have comments on blog posts. I only did it on WordPress because I honestly felt like I should. Now that I’m in complete control and this blog serves more of a purpose of me saying things and people consuming that information, comments sections aren’t really necessary. If you want to comment on something, send me an [email](/contact/).
2. **I feel more developer-y**. I don’t know if _not_ using WordPress is a requirement for this one but it just feels right. I really enjoyed the setup process and learned a lot about the whole thing. Granted I have a bit of experience with [Ruby](https://github.com/search?l=Ruby&q=user%3Ajohlym&ref=searchresults&type=Repositories&utf8=%E2%9C%93), already, which really helped in troubleshooting.

So with all that being said, here it is. Every time I update, I push the new files to both a GitHub repo and my server at the same time so I have redundancy and it’s an easy way to show off what i’m doing to make this site interesting using a popular static site generator.

Over the next couple weeks, I’ll be sure to share any unique experiences I had and what I learned from them so stay tuned!

