---
title: Endgame
slug: endgame
featured: false
layout: post
categories: posts
date: 2015-03-28 09:11:58 -07:00
last_modified_at: 2022-02-06 14:00:00 -07:00
---

> end game (n.) – the late or final stages of any activity.

Thinking about what my goal for this blog is made me realize: I don't have one.

I'm ok with that. There's something to be said about just wanting to do something because you can. I don't play video games because at one point I'll end up being a professional gamer and spending my life playing League of Legends for money. I don't blog because one day I want to make this site a full time job earning money.

At least not right now.

There's always the same thought that crosses my mind every once in a while regarding the slim possibility this site ever becomes famous or even just a smidgen popular. I have plans for my blog but none of them involve some masterful end goal.

As time progresses, things change. When traffic increases, perhaps it'll be time to focus on specific topics or themes. Right now, I ramble most of the time and post generic stuff. Sometimes there's a theme, sometimes not.

I know people read this but I also know more people would read it if they found it interesting to them.

Right now though,t it doesn't really matter. I write because I can, because I want to. I write because it frankly feels good to me. Some people knit, some paint. Writing makes me feel like I accomplished something.

As long as I can continue to do just that, I don't need an end goal. And end is an exit. I don't want to exit from writing.

